---
date: "2017-09-05"
title: Assembly/Process/Thread/AppDomian
category: programming, beginners 
---

Assembly-: In .NET framework an assembly is a compiled code library used for deployment, versioning and security.

.exe(Portable assembly)-: It uses classes defined in lib. assembly.

.dll( library assembly)-: class libraries.

.NET assemblies contains code in CIL(Common Intermediate Language) format which is generated from CLI languages then compiled into M/C language by CLR.

PE(Portable Executable) files-: is a file format for executable, object code and dll’s used in 32-64 bit windows machine.

.pdb(Program DataBase)-: It holds file debugging and project state information that allows incremental linking of a debug config to a program. This file is generated by linker.

In .NET at compile time a code is generated in a CIL format i.e. assemblies are created at compile time later on at Run time these CIL code is being changed into M/C code by JIT(Just in Time) compiler.

Process-: Process has their own virtual address space, executable code, open handles to system objects, a security context.

Each Process starts with a single thread often called the primary thread, but can call additional threads from any of its threads.

Kernel Thread-: Lightest Unit Of Kernel Scheduling. For each process atleast One kernel thread exists.

If multiple thread exists within a process then they share resource of a process preemptively.

Threads-: Thread is an execution path of a program. It is a smallest processing unit scheduled by an OS or thread is an entity within a process that can be scheduled for execution.

Threads shares virtual address space of a process and System resources. Each thread maintains exception handlers, scheduling theory, thread local storage and a unique thread identifier.

AppDomain-: It is an isolation unit within a process. AppDomain can be created at runtime loaded with code and unloaded afterwards. These Isolated boundaries makes .NET application more reliable.